He has switched to
enable county interface VLAN 10 standby.
Now it's important for that to the same group number be used on both sides.
Otherwise we'll have two active routers in different groups and you'd want to do that if you want to
split the load with inner villain and use two separate IP addresses.
We won't be doing that right now.
We wanted the election to take place between these two switches for the same virtual Rada.
So we're gonna specify IP address and the IP address in our case is tendered one tender to fight for
we can now hit carriage return and we won't change the property by default.
It is 100.
So if we configure that again as one hundred and type to show run interface VLAN 10 you'll notice that
the property doesn't display because that's the default once again.
So all I need to configure is that command.
And now when we type should stand by
we can see that for group one on VLAN 10 the local rowdies is the standby Rada the virtual IP addresses
tendered wonder tend not to fight for.
That's the virtual age's IP router that's been configured.
There's the virtual MAC address.
Hello and whole time are set to the defaults.
Make sure that you set them the same if you do change them so make sure that it's the same on both riders
pre-emption is disabled.
In this example the active Rod is tendered one tendered one and the property's 200.
In other words switch one is the active Rada and has a property of 200.
The local Rada is the standby rota and has a default property of 100 back on switch one show standby
shows us that the rod is still active So local Rod is active but the standby Rada of tendered one to
attend to.
In other words switch to is now shown with its property of 100 so that's how you configure basic HSR
P on the active rota.
We've configured this and on the stand by Rada we only configured a single command.
Now once we've done that on broader one which is acting as our P.S. let's see if we can ping the virtual
router so ping tendered wonder tender to fight for the thing works and if I type show up IP address
a virtual router mac address a virtual router now this thing doesn't exist at the moment even if I turn
that off that's right it isn't physically connected to our topology ingenious 3 at all.
I'm only showing the icon here to show how it fits in the topology so it's not on it's not physically
connected anywhere but rather one acting as P.S. one is able to ping that IP address because in actual
fact it's pinging switch one on switch one we can use a debug debug IP ICMP get back on to write a 1
and notice for getting output on the console or switch one it's sending an echo reply back to 10 dot
1 to 10 tendered eleven which is rather one acting as P.S. One from a source IP address of tendered
wonder to tender to find for the virtual routers IP address so debug IP ICMP on Roorda one acting as
our P.C. notice this piece he believes that it's talking to this IP address and it believes it's talking
to this MAC address where as in actual fact it's communicating with switch one now before we run a test
and test fail over we need to configure H.S. IP on VLAN 20 and then we'll be able to test connectivity
between rider 1 and Rider 2 and then verify what happens when an interface goes down.
Alternate debugging on switch one go on VLAN 20 standby.
GROUP No.
I'm going to specify one to show you that you can use the same group number in different villains but
these are separated from each other because they are in different V'landys IP address 10 dot one dot
twenty dot to fly for in this example.
So v land twenty virtual IP address.
That's all I'm going to configure on such one.
I'd like to show you how preemption works so I'm going to wait a while so that this router can become
the active router and then I'll enable preemption on switch to to show you that it forces itself to
become the active Roorda for that VLAN when we enable preemption.
So the state is speak it did change to active but this output is when it was still in the speak stage
so active Rod is unknown stand by Rod is unknown.
Local property is one hundred active virtual Mac addresses unknown but when we do show standby again
local road is now active stand by road it is unknown so active Roorda is the local Roorda using this
mac address so it's the same MAC address on VLAN 10 and veal and 20 but it doesn't cause a conflict
because mac addresses all layout to addresses and are contained within the relevant VLAN so show run
interface VLAN 20 that's the config of HSR p on switch one for VLAN 20 on switch to now interface VLAN
twenty standby group number one IP tendered one twenty two five four standby one priority two hundred.
So let's see if it forces itself to become active without the pre-emption keyword so do shows stand
by preemption is currently disabled it's in the speak state and it's just gone to standby so notice
even though this router has a higher priority of 200 the active router remains the active Roorda because
we haven't put the preempt keyword in to force the strata to become the active rota we use the com on
standby 1 preempt and what we should see and it just happened over there.
Notice state changed to active so for Vila and twenty group one the state just changed and we can see
that in the output through the show stand by command again.
Notice the local Rada is the active Rada for VLAN twenty group one and the standby Rada is switch one
we can see as an example that the state changed on switch one so pre-emption forces the local switch.
In this example to be the active Rada for V land twenty so what have we done.
Such one is the active Rada for VLAN ten switch two is the active Rada for VLAN twenty we have configured
HSR p on both v lands in this example.
So the next step is to configure the default gateways on the pieces and then test connectivity when
a interface goes down.